Let's now set up I.K. controls for the arms.
So let's zoom in here.
And what I want to do is in a similar way to the feet I need to copy this hand bone to create the arm
I.K. bone.
So with this selected press shift D and hit enter.
And now this all change to arm I K L and remember that we need to disconnected or clear the parenting
information from this because it's still a child of this bone and parent of all of these.
So I'll press Allt P and clear parent and now want to go back to pose mode and select this lower arm
bone.
And now we need to create an eye K-8 chain with two bones lower and upper and we need to target it to
that arm.
I.K. So with this selected I'll come over here to the bone constraints and add an inverse kinematics.
I will target the armature and the bone is going to be that arm.
I K.L. the chain length needs to be to and there we go.
So now I should be able to select this arm I.K. bone and hit G and move it around.
So there is the arm.
Now once again the hand bone is not following the I.K. target.
So I need to fix that so I'll select that hand bone and I will create a copy rotation I'll choose the
armature and I'll pick that arm.
I.K. And now we should be able to select that I k bone move it around and now the hand should follow
along with that I.K. bone.
So I'll hit our twice to go into rotation here and you can see that it's following along.
All right.
So I'll select all the bones and press alt are to clear the rotations and G to clear the transformations
or the location.
All right.
So let's do that over here on the other side as well.
I'll go back to edit mode and select that hand bone duplicated and let's rename that arm.
I k r I will clear the parent with Allt P and now if we go back into PPOs mode select that lower arm
and choose our inverse kinematics we will target the armature and that arm I.K. on the right and we'll
increase the chain length to.
So now if we choose that arm I.K. are should be able to hit the key and move the arm around.
The only thing left for this is to do that copy constraint.
So it's like the hand go to the copy rotation like the target that arm I.K. and there we go.
So I'll say like the are my kid again just to test and sure enough it follows along.
All right.
So we've got inverse kinematics set up for our arms while we're doing this why don't we create elbow
controls as well.
So I'll go back to edit mode and select this elbow.
I'll press shift.
Yes.
Move the cursor to selected all de-select everything and press shift a and there is that bone.
This one we will go to my move tool and I'll move this straight back like this.
And this is going to be our elbow control so we'll call it elbow C L L.
Now we need to go back to pose mode and Slyke that lower arm and remember we're going to use the pole
target for this so all Slyke the armature and select this bone which is going to be elbow control.
Here it is.
And of course the elbow pops around a bit but we can fix that by using our pole angle and bring it back
around so it points at that control object or that bone or something like that and we go.
So now if we grab this bone and move it around you can see it's moving the elbow around as well.
Now for the foot we parroted the knee control to the foot control but I'm afraid if we do that to the
hand control here we'll get some strange reactions when we actually rotate the hand.
I think probably the better way to do it is to just parent it to the body for now so I'll select that
and press control P and keep offset.
So now if we go back to pose mode I can move this around you can see that elbow control moves along
with it.
But also we can move this down say and then grab that elbow control and move it around here.
OK.
So just like everything with the achy and press alt g to clear the location Allt are to clear the rotation.
Now for the fingers I think what I'd like to do is create a system where we only have to move one bone
at a time for each finger so instead of having to rotate this and then rotate this and then rotate.
This what I'd rather do is just rotate one bone and have all the others rotate along with it.
So I'm going to select everything and press alt are to clear the rotations again.
So what we can do for that nego and press in to close that panel what we can do is create copy constraints
from here to here.
And from this joint to that joint so all we have to do is move this one and everything else bends along
with it.
So I'm going to turn on the names here so I can see what the names are.
And we go.
So what I'm going to do is create a copy rotation constraint from here to here so I'll select this finger
index three and go back to my bone constraints Panel Add a copy rotation I'm going to only want to have
this move in the X and I'm going to want it to be in local space.
I'll choose the armature.
And for this I want finger index 2 on the left you know like that so that if I choose this bone and
rotate it you can see that other one rotates along with it.
All right.
Now let's do that again for this one.
Index to copy rotation.
Turn off y and z set these to local grab the armature and we want this to be finger index one and we
go.
So now if we just select this one finger and rotate it in the x.
The other two joints come along with it.
They rotate as well.
So that's really all I'm going to need for this particular animation is just a little bit of finger
movement like that.
So what I need to do now is go through the rest of the fingers here creating copy rotation constraints
from one to the next.
Now as I've been working here I've noticed a bit of a problem I think.
Notice how each one of these will rotate in the x or red X is here.
All right we've got those all all lined up and for the thumb.
These are OK.
They're lining up in the X.
But notice the tip of the thumb.
The rotation is off.
So I'm going to need to fix that.
The problem is as I already have this object parent to that joint so I'm going to have to and parent
that object fix the bone and then repair the object.
Let's take a look at how we might do that.
I'm going to come over here to the armature panel and turn on axes.
I'll turn off names for a minute.
And as it turns out you can see the problem here the z is pointing to the side and the X is pointing
down.
I need to rotate this 90 degrees here.
But before I do that I'm going to need to and parent to this object.
So let me go back to object mode and select this piece.
What I'll do is press alt P and clear the parent information here.
So now if I go back to pose mode on this and move this around it should not affect that.
OK that's good.
So now what I need to do is come in here to edit mode and use and the properties panel use the role
field here.
To roll this this way so that the z is pointing down like all the others something like that.
All right so now what I can do is go back to object mode select this piece Schiff's select.
Oh I need to go to pose mode.
Scuse me I need to go a pose mode so that I can now select this shift select that bone in pose mode.
And then control P and parent it to the bone.
So now if we rotate in the X we should see that that joint rotates properly.
So now I can go ahead and do the copy rotation for that.
Over here in the constraints panel copy rotation and we'll go ahead and set these up local space armature
and we will target the finger from two dot L.
So hopefully now that should rotate properly when we rotate here.
Yeah that looks good.
All right we've just about set up the rig for the Mac what we need to do now is to create control objects
so that when we animate the character we don't have to actually select the bones.
We can hide them and just have control objects that will make our view cleaner and easier to handle.
So that's up next.